\chapter{How to run experiments}

In thesis, we mentioned many different experiments. In this chapter we provide
a description how to run them. Please, firstly check the dependencies and if
the application is running correctly (follow User documentation).

\section{Calibration}

We provide a several calibration scenarios to try. In the directory
\verb+program/experiments/localization/+ a script named \verb+calibrate.py+ is
available. The script sets options to calibrate from different pairs of the
video. To run calibration on given set of videos, run \verb+calibrate.py {id}+,
where \verb+{id}+ can be 16, 38, 43, 63. This \verb+{id}+ represents the true
distance between the cameras. The estimated distance will be outputted in the
program.

If the calibration cannnot succeed, chech the number of images needed for
calibration in the \verb+program/program/Config.py+ and set it to smaller
number.

\section{Localization experiment}

In the same directory, \verb+program/experiments/localization/+ a script to run
localization on diffent scenarios is available. Run \verb+track.py {distance}
{id}+, where \verb+{distance}+ represents the distance between the cameras
(available 16, 38, 43) and the \verb+{id}+ represents the id of the pair fo the
videos (for all values of distance available scenarios 1 or 2).

The script also outputs on the first line the command which was called to run
the application.

\section{Static localization}

Experiments providing the results for localization without tracking are only
runnable under Linux based systems.

In the directory \verb+program/experiments/localization_static/+ run script
\verb+get_data_for_ladder.py id+. Allowed \verb+id+ is 1, 2, 3 or 4.

This script create results used to compute distances between the dots. To
compute the distances, a sciprt \verb+compute_distances.py id+ is available. As
\verb+id+ may be used again 1, 2, 3 or 4. 

\section{Tracker's experiments}

All tracker's experiments are located in the directory
\verb+program/experiments/trackers+. The experiments can be started by \verb+trackers{\_}experiments.py+. First argument of the script chooses the scenario for the experiment.

\subsection*{Speed and accuracy}

\subsubsection*{\texttt{trackers{\_}experiments.py 1}}

This experiments runs all trackers at the each frame of the video. To compute
an inaccuracy, we use Simple background tracker as the representative tracker
(displayed with the red bounding box).

At the end, results for all trackers are displayed. The first columns specifies
the tracker, the second represents FPS (more described in the chapter Tracker)
and the third the inaccuracy.

\subsubsection*{\texttt{trackers{\_}experiments.py 2}}

The second scenario consists of the same experiment, with the orange cap on the
top of the robot, to provide results also for HSV tracker.

\subsection*{Under occlusion}

\subsubsection*{\texttt{trackers{\_}experiments.py 3 {id}}}

To test a behavior of the trackers under occlusion, we provide an experiment 3.
The reslts from this experiment were obtained by human eye. If the object is
lost, the message is outputed to standard output.

Admissible \verb+{id}+ is from \verb+0+ to \verb+8+.

\subsection*{Tracking multiple objects}

\subsubsection*{\texttt{trackers{\_}experiments.py 4 {id}}}

The fourth experiment focuses on tracking multiple objects. Again, the results were
evaluated by the human. 

Admissible \verb+{id}+ is from \verb+0+ to \verb+8+.

\subsubsection*{\texttt{trackers{\_}experiments.py 5}}

The same experiment as previous, now with changed objects to be onecolor for
the HSV tracker.

